# Linear Stability Analysis

In this file, we present results on the linear stability of the obtained fixed points. Calculations show that all the 303 fixed points obtained are linearly unstable to infinitesimal perturbations. This is confirmed in the following two different ways.

In one way, time-stepping of the 2D KSE has been performed with each of the fixed points taken as the initial condition. Note that there is no need to explicitly add perturbations to the fixed points when setting the initial condition, as the numerically obtained fixed points (always subjected to numerical errors) are not exact solutions. The temporal evolution of the norm of \phi(t)-\phi(0) was then recorded and the corresponding data were named as “*fixed_point_evolution.mat” and stored in Data directory. After loading these mat files in MATLAB, the variables At and AEnorm, representing the time and the perturbation norm, respectively, will appear in the workspace. The evolution curve can be plotted via the command “figure; semilogy(At,AEnorm,'-b.')” in the Command Window of MATLAB. The typical evolution process involves an exponential growth in the linear stage, followed by a saturation to a chaotic state which is statistically steady.

In the other way, we performed global linear stability analysis of the fixed points. This is conducted by linearizing the 2D KSE around the fixed point solutions and then formulating an eigenvalue problem under the assumption that an infinitesimal perturbation evolves exponentially in the linear stage. In formulating the eigenvalue problem, Fourier differentiation matrices of various orders were constructed, taking advantage of the periodic nature of the 2D KSE in both the x and y directions. The eigenvalue problem was then solved using the eigs function in MATLAB and the obtained leading eigenvalues (ev) and eigenfunctions (ef) were stored in the Data directory and named as “*fixed_point_linear_growth_rate.mat”.

To demonstrate the consistency of the above two methods and cross-validate each other, we take the 1st, the 4th, and the 119th fixed points as examples and compare their linear growth rates estimated from the two methods. The three png files provided in the Linear_Stability_Analysis directory show good agreements, indicating that these fixed points are linearly unstable. 
